## Background

At the time of writing, the Heartbleed scandal is just about to blow over.  It didn't have a
disastrous effect on me. I've been good, I had unique, randomly generated passwords on every site,
and they were all stored in a password manager with a locally encrypted database. Even if it was
transfered over a vulnerable connection, the key has never been transfered and just one layer of the
encryption would have been endangered.

Changing out all of my passwords took less than an hour, my password manager made it very simple to
generate new ones, but I still had to go through the forms on every single website. I was feeling
pretty happy with myself, this process would have taken me more than three times as long a year ago.

I then remembered that my mother would have to go through this process as well, but her password
manager was a notebook. It was her compromise when I argued that she needed unique passwords, but
she thought password managers were too complicated. Suddenly I weren't feeling so good about being
able to switch out the passwords on 30 different accounts so quickly.

Since Heartbleed was such a big deal, she was already aware that she needed to change her passwords,
and didn't complain too much, but I knew that changing her 4 or 5 accounts were going to cause her
much more pain than it did for me.

I've been interested in computers for as long as I can remember, before I had a password manager I
made up my own algorithm so I could remember my passwords for all different sites. I've spent a lot
of time thinking about how to solve this problem for **me**, but we're now living in a time where
even my grandparents have Facebook, and expecting them go through these procedures is just
ridiculous.

Most non technicals will just use the same password everywhere, and it will probably be a bad
password too (as shown by the leaked password statistics that comes out every time a big site gets
hacked). We can try to educate people, making them aware that they need to think about security and
that they should install extra software for keeping all of their passwords safe, but they just want
to get into their stuff as smoothly as possible, and be confident that nobody else will. **Is this
really their problem?**

Is passwords as security a necessary evil, or is it just us developers being lazy? Passwords has
been the default form of security for as long as I've been alive, I think it's time for a more
sensible default.
